I would also like to ask you this question,
teacher. We are
Buddhist lay followers who are not yet familiar with Buddhist teachings.
On the full moon days, the 15th day of the lunar month,
and on days of family memorial services,
what should we do to benefit
and bring blessings to our family and to the deceased? Thank you for
your guidance.
Thank you for your question, Ms. Hoa. Respectfully, in the
spirit of
Buddhism, as taught in many sutras,
only the Buddha can save sentient beings in this world.
Through the experience of
people possessed by spirits, they
go to many places for prayers and
hospitals without success. Then they
come here to us, and we guide
them and their families to chant sutras, make offerings to the Three Jewels, and dedicate the
blessings to
them.
That's how we can confirm that the
spirit receives blessings. Therefore, according to
the Buddha's teachings, on the full moon days and the 15th day of the lunar month,
we should offer only vegetarian food,
just rice, soup, and vegetables.  So, the
Buddhist practice of offering food to the community still guides people to believe
that it's not necessary to have flowers and
fruits from one's own home. If, in the past,
we wanted to eat something at home, we would offer
that thing as a sacrifice and then bring it down to eat as fruit.
In Buddhism,
the Buddha taught those who
work in agriculture that when they
harvest something, they should
offer it as a sacrifice.
For example, when we harvest the
first crop of rice, we should immediately offer it as a sacrifice. Those who
have Buddha at home should offer to Buddha first, then to their ancestors.
Those who don't have ten Buddhas at home should offer to the Earth
God and the Local Deity first, and
then consume it later.
That depends on our heart's devotion
to them. Therefore, we receive blessings.
So, if we want to buy flowers, fruits, and
sweets, it means we have a need
to eat them, so we offer them first and then eat them later.
If we don't need flowers, fruits, or
sweets, we can just scoop a bowl of rice and offer
a cup of plain water or tea
as a sacrifice.
Okay, one bowl of rice. Today I couldn't go to
the market, I was too busy last week. I cooked
rice at home, scooped it up, and brought it
up to offer to the spirits. When you see it, offer it to the
deities and gods, the Earth God, and the Earth Spirit. One bowl is for offering to the gods, one bowl is for two bowls of rice, scoop it up with the bowl you used for the offering. After the offering, later when we go down to eat, we'll have
a cup of water, a cup of diluted tea, so that it has a
fragrant aroma. It has the
aroma of all the vegetables and things. If
there's no tea,
then plain water is fine, any kind of drink is fine. Just don't
offer alcohol. You shouldn't
offer
alcohol because that's what causes
sentient beings to have evil thoughts, so if
we offer it to them and they have evil thoughts,
they won't be able to bless our family. That's
the spirit of offering on the
first day of the lunar month. If a family
understands Buddhism better, we can make offerings to the
Three Jewels, whether a lot or a little, and then
dedicate that merit to the
deceased and to our
family.  That money is from my family's house, but it
has to be taken to the temple, not left
there and then used to buy fruit
later. That's not allowed. Whether you have 500, 1000, or whatever amount is up to you; nobody forces you. If you have it, you can offer it to the Three Jewels, or not, it's up to you. You can offer rice, water, or fruit to the ancestors, then bring it down first to offer to them, and then
bring it down to the "Tho Thuat" (eating) area. The ancestors can
eat that stuff. The spirits can eat the fragrant aromas from it. Remember, the deceased eat
through the fragrance and aroma,
not through the taste. The flavor rises up as a scent.
For example, bitterness rises,
bitterness rises,
sweetness rises, so they can sense it.
So, the taste transforms into fragrance, and the
spirits can eat it. That's why in the
sutra on offering to the spirits, the Buddha taught
that the deceased can eat whatever the
family offers, but you must not offer sacrifices
involving killing animals.  That's right, people
will receive the food, but they
won't receive the money or offerings. That's
just my belief, and
my belief isn't true for
them. That's not the truth.
My belief is incorrect. It's like
saying, "Those who
came before do it, then those who come after
do it." That's what we do, not what
they receive. What they receive
is the merit gained from making offerings to the Three Jewels and
dedicating the merit to them.
So, if you have a
little faith in Buddhism, you
can ask for the prayer for the 15th and 1st days of the lunar month from the
temple and use it. The
prayer has two parts: one
is just offering food, and the
other is offering to the Three Jewels and dedicating the
merit. If you don't make offerings to the Three Jewels and
dedicate the merit, you skip
that part. You only read the part about
offering food to the deceased,
and the offerings are very simple, not
time-consuming, not elaborate, but you still
receive blessings, and the deceased still receive them.
And actually, all the Buddhists
at Ba Vang Pagoda were
people who were very superstitious before, before they
knew about Buddhism. To be honest, if we're
talking about burning paper offerings, I, Tam Chieu Hoan Quan,
sometimes burn much more than the others here.
For example, on the 15th day of the 7th lunar month, I would
count how many
sets of offerings each deceased person had, and it would take a whole afternoon to
finish. I'd have to spend
days shopping to buy everything I needed. Then there were the elaborate tombs
with dragons, horses, and elephants – it was
n't just ordinary things. That
is, before writing about Buddhism,
before becoming Buddhists at Ba Vang Pagoda, they
were people who spent all year going to
fortune tellers. They also went to temples and
lived near a temple because there was a temple god next door, so they
had to
go to the temple for everything. They went to many different shrines and shrines. I've
seen it all.
They even sat down and had
someone cover their heads with a cloth, and even tried
shaking it. That's right,
before knowing about
Buddhism, they were all...  I've been to all sorts of places, and
then I learned about Buddhism and realized the
value and truth about spirits.
Because of my experience with the Pure Land, I had
an older sister who passed away. When
she died, I went to all the temples and
shrines to pray for her, but
nothing worked. Later, through
Buddhist practice, I saw her soul liberated; she didn't return,
didn't bother the family, and nothing
else happened. That's when I realized, "Ah, my sister
Ninh has been liberated!" It's true that
only the Buddha's teachings could liberate Ninh's soul
and alleviate the family's suffering. That's why I follow
this path; it's not just random belief, you have to see the truth to believe.
Therefore, on the 15th and 1st of the lunar month, if
you have a little faith in
karma and the truth, and want to
benefit yourself, you should go
upstairs to the living room and ask for
some prayers for the 15th and 1st of the lunar month. Or if
anyone has a phone, the staff will
guide you through all the prayers
for the year. Even unfamiliar places have
simple prayers.  Praying is
not complicated at all, but it brings benefits.
That's too much offering, burning a
whole bag of money on the 15th of the lunar month, and it brings no benefit, it's a
waste! Yes
[music] sir.